Hi, guys, welcome back.
There is a bit of complexity in how I am evaluates whether you're allowed or denied from performing
any particular action or operation.
So in this lesson, we're going to delve into a bit more detail about how that works.
Now this is straight from IWC, and this is the logical flow of how we go through the process of determining
whether you allow who denied doing something.
Now I just wanted to show you this quickly here.
We're going to go through this in detail shortly.
But I just wanted to show you what we're leading up to.
This is going to be the last slide of this lesson.
Before we actually go through this, there's going to be a bit more background knowledge that you need.
So let's firstly start with what are the steps for authorizing requests to IWC.
And we've touched on this and a little bit of detail already.
So we have the various methods on the left of how we might authenticates IWC.
And in this example, we're trying to connect to an S3 bucket.
So we first need to authenticate so IWC will authenticate the principle that makes the request.
In this case, it's a user.
The request context must then be formulated and processed.
Now this includes several attributes, so we've got the actions.
These are the actions or operations the principal wants to perform the resources.
In this case, we're trying to perform those actions against the necessary bucket.
The principle in this case, it's a user could be a role federated user or application.
Some environment data, so could be things like the IP address or the SSL status of the connection.
And we then have resource data which is related to the resource, the S3 bucket that's being requested,
then identity based policies and any resource based policies must also be evaluated and then the action.
In this case, the gets objects action will be allowed or denied.
In this case, it's allowed.
So that's the steps for authorizing the request.
Now let's look at the several types of policy.
We're familiar already with quite a few of these.
So identity based policies that we attach to users groups or roles, resource based policies that we
can attach to things like Dynamo DB tables, S3 buckets, VPC endpoints and then we have I am permissions
boundary, which we've also been over.
Then there's eight of US organizations service control policies, and we haven't covered these yet.
We'll cover these in detail later in the course.
But for now, just understand that eight of us organizations is a way that you can centrally manage
multiple IWC accounts, and you can apply policies to those accounts which determine the maximum available
permissions and those are called service control policies.
Lastly, we have session policies which are used with the Assume Role API actions.
So what is the process for evaluating policies?
Well, let's look at when we have a combination of identity based policies and resource based policies,
and in this case there are four allowed permissions.
The effective permissions will be all available permissions here because it will be a combination of
the identity based policy allows, and the resource base policy allows as no denies being shown here.
So the principle will get access to all full permissions.
We then got an identity based policy with a permissions boundary.
And again, this fall allowed permissions.
In this case, the effects of permissions will be where does that overlap between the two?
So you need to have both the identity based policy giving you and allow giving you the privileges for
that particular action or operation.
But you also need to be allowed through the permissions boundary as well.
Lastly, we have the identity based policy with an organization's SVP.
And this is very similar to a permissions boundary, but it's applied at the account level.
And in this case, again, the effective permissions are going to be where the overlap is between the
identity based policies and the organization's ACP.
So in other words, with both the permissions boundary and the organization's ACP, you need to be allowed
in each of those policies, as well as have the permissions through an identity based policy as well.
The last slide before we have a look at that logical flow is the determination rules.
So by default, all requests are implicitly denied, except for for the root user who always has unrestricted
access.
But for everyone else, there's an implicit denial.
That means if you don't have an allow permission allowing you to do something, then you're just denied
by default and explicit.
Allow an identity based or resource based policies will override that default if there's a permissions,
boundary organizations, Skype or session policy that.
Can override the alarm with an implicit denial and think back to the last slide and you'll understand
how that works.
And then lastly, and explicit deny in any policy will always override any allows.
So let's have a look at the logical flow starting up in the top left hand side here.
The decision starts with a denial.
As always, that's the implicit denial.
So now we have to evaluate all the policies.
If there's an explicit deny, then straightaway it's all over.
The deny decision is final.
If there are no denies, then it checks whatever the principal's account is a member of an organization,
an IWC organization with a service control policy.
If not, then just carry on.
If yes, it needs to check for it, allow, then it checks whether the requested resource has a resource
based policy.
If it doesn't, then it moves on.
If it does, again, it just checks won't allow.
And if there is one, then the final decision is allowing this case.
Next up, the permissions boundaries have to be checked is there and allow.
If not, then the final decision is deny.
And if there isn't a permissions boundary, then just move on and check for a session policy again.
If doesn't allow, then it moves on.
If there's a session policy present without an alcohol, then the denial takes effect.
The final step of the decision here is then to check for identity based policies.
Now remember if you had a resource based policy and it had an alcohol, then the allow already took
effect.
So with everything else with the permissions boundary, with the session policy, it needs to check
whether there's an identity based policy.
So if that isn't one, then does it deny it because there is no privilege for any actions?
If there is a policy, then it will check it and again, deny if there's no allow.
That's the implicit denial taking place and then allow if there is an actual explicit statement that
allows you that particular action or operation.
So that's the evaluation logic.
Quite a few steps there.
But once you understand the background of each of these types of policies, all makes a lot more sense.
So I hope that was useful and I'll see you in the next lesson.